Hadoop components available with soafaces

= Overview =

soafaces comes packages with two main components that allow for Hadoop integration:

 * Hadoop Job Runner
 * Hadoop Reporter


= Hadoop Job Manager =

This soafaces component lets you build, run and track any existing Hadoop job you have. You can easily package your existing hadoop code into a jar (or set of jars) and drop them into the *lib* directory of the this soafaces component (aka SFB). The Hadoop Job Manager component can then execute and run the Hadoop job.

This component will allow a container that implements soafaces, like !JobServer, to launch and track any Hadoop job. This gives you the ability to use the full power of [http://grandlogic.com JobServer] to schedule and track in real-time the status of your Hadoop job. 

== Tasklet ==
The Tasklet associated with this component executes and tracks the Hadoop job on the server side.

== Weblet ==
The component comes with a GWT Weblet customizer to lets you customize how to connect and setup your Hadoop job.

== !RuntimeViewer ==
The component includes a GWT !RuntimeViewer GUI for tracking and monitoring the Hadoop job as it runs and to report on its final status.

= Hadoop Reporter =

This is a soafaces component (SFB) that runs a basic job that will generate a report that can be viewed or emailed detailing the high-level status of all jobs within your specified Hadoop environment.

== Tasklet ==
The Tasklet associated with this component connects with your Hadoop environment to query the status of all the running jobs in the Hadoop JobTracker.

== Weblet ==
The component comes with a GWT Weblet customizer to lets you customize how to connect and setup your Hadoop job.

== !RuntimeViewer ==
The component includes a GWT !RuntimeViewer GUI that will display the status of all the running jobs in your Hadoop environment.